## Introduction
> *NOTE: The following introduction was generated by GitHub Copilot* 🤖

EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service) is a managed service provided by AWS (Amazon Web Services) for running Kubernetes clusters. It simplifies the process of deploying, managing, and scaling containerized applications using Kubernetes.

With EKS, you can easily create and manage Kubernetes clusters without the need to install or operate your own Kubernetes control plane. EKS takes care of the underlying infrastructure, including the control plane, and provides a highly available and scalable platform for running your applications.

EKS integrates with other AWS services, such as EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud), IAM (Identity and Access Management), and VPC (Virtual Private Cloud), allowing you to leverage the full power of the AWS ecosystem in your Kubernetes deployments.

By using EKS, you can focus on developing and deploying your applications, while AWS handles the operational aspects of managing the Kubernetes infrastructure.

To get started with EKS, you need to create an EKS cluster, configure worker nodes, and deploy your applications using Kubernetes manifests or Helm charts. EKS provides features like automatic scaling, load balancing, and integration with AWS services, making it a powerful platform for running containerized workloads.

For more information on EKS, refer to the official AWS documentation: https://aws.amazon.com/eks/

## EKS Workshop
The following code is based on the [EKS Workshop](https://www.eksworkshop.com/docs/introduction/) found online via AWS. In my case, I will be using `terraform` to manage my EKS cluster and environment. In the future, I hope to create a user guide for using `AWS CDK`. 

Start with creating a local directory called `terraform` and change to that directory. We will download all the `terraform` files into that directory:

```bash
mkdir -p ./terraform; cd ./terraform
curl --remote-name-all https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws-samples/eks-workshop-v2/stable/cluster/terraform/{main.tf,variables.tf,providers.tf,vpc.tf,eks.tf}
```

For the given configuration, `terraform` will create the Workshop environment with the following:

* Create a VPC across three availability zones
* Create an EKS cluster
* Create an IAM OIDC provider
* Add a managed node group named `default`
* Configure the VPC CNI to use prefix delegation

To begin the process of building the cluster, run the following:

```bash
export EKS_CLUSTER_NAME=eks-workshop
terraform init
terraform apply -var="cluster_name=$EKS_CLUSTER_NAME" -auto-approve
```

> *NOTE: If you don't have `terraform` installed, see [these docs](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started/install-cli#install-terraform) to get started*

## Connecting to the Cluster
Once the cluster is created, you need to connect to the cluster. To do that, you will need to make sure you have `kubectl` installed on your local machine. Set the authentication in your local `kubeconfig` with the following command:

```bash
export EKS_CLUSTER_NAME=eks-workshop
aws eks update-kubeconfig --name $EKS_CLUSTER_NAME
```

Then, make sure you can see your cluster nodes by running the following:

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

## Cleaning Up the Cluster
To delete the cluster, you will need to navigate back to the `terraform` directory and run the following:

```bash
export EKS_CLUSTER_NAME=eks-workshop
cd ./terraform
terraform destroy -var="cluster_name=$EKS_CLUSTER_NAME" -auto-approve
```